Enumeration
At this point in the enumeration
step of the database,
we already know a couple of things.
Because of access to the
WordPress server,
we know that the host is
not in our current network.
We also know that the database
is running MariaDB 10.3.20,
which is a fairly recent version,
so it most likely won’t
have vulnerabilities discovered
that lead to remote code execution.
Let’s connect to the database and start
enumerating other aspects of MariaDB.
Application/Service Enumeration
To connect to MariaDB, we can
use Kali’s built in MySQL client
along with the credentials we recovered
from the WordPress configuration file.
We will also need to
point the MySQL client
to the tunnel running
on Kali on port 13306.
Now that we are connected, we can look at
what privileges we have as the wp user
to get a better idea of how this
MariaDB instance is configured.
We don’t have "*" permissions,
but SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, and
DELETE are a good starting point.
Next, let’s take a look at some variables
and see if we can find
anything that stands out.
The hostname of this server is “zora”,
which is how we’ll refer
to it from this point on.
We also learned that the
temp directory is in /var/tmp.
We confirmed that we are
running MariaDB version 10.3.20,
but we now know that the
target architecture is x86_64.
The most interesting piece of
information we can gather
is the location of
the plugin directory.
This directory is not standard for MariaDB
so we’ll take note of that as
it might become useful later on.
Now that we have gathered
some information,
let’s see if we can find any exploits
for our target MariaDB version.
Unfortunately, none of these would
work for our version of MariaDB.
Let’s broaden the scope and
see what we get for MySQL.
When searching for MySQL vulnerabilities,
we have to change our approach a bit.
This time we are not looking for
an exact version number
that might be vulnerable to an exploit
since MariaDB and MySQL use
different version numbers.
Instead, we are trying to see
if we can identify a pattern
in publicly disclosed exploits that may
indicate a type of attack we could use.
We notice that the words “UDF”
and “User Defined” show up often.
Let’s take a look at one of the
more recent UDF exploits.
A User Defined Function (UDF) is similar
to a custom plugin for MySQL.
It allows database administrators to
create custom repeatable functions
to accomplish specific objectives.
Conveniently for us, UDFs
are written in C or C++
and can run almost any code we
want, including system commands.
Researchers have discovered how
to use standard MySQL (and MariaDB)
functionality to create plugins
that can be used to exploit systems.
This specific exploit reveals how UDFs can
be used to escalate privileges on a host.
However, we should be able to use the
same principle to get an initial shell.
Some modifications will be
required but before we start
changing anything,
let’s examine the code.
The first thing we notice is a shellcode
variable defined on lines 40-45.
The SQL query at line 71 obtains
the plugin directory.
This is the non-standard
variable we found on Zora.
Next, on line 92, the code dumps
the shellcode binary content
into a file within the plugin directory.
Line 101 creates a function named sys_exec
leveraging the uploaded binary file.
Finally, the script checks if the function
was successfully created on line 104,
and if this is the case, the
function is executed on line 113.
According to the MySQL
CREATE FUNCTION syntax
the binary content of
the shellcode variable
is supposed to be a shared library
that implements and exports the functions
we want to create within the database.
Essentially, the entire script is
only running five commands.
Since we already have an
interactive MariaDB shell,
we could theoretically run these commands
directly in the MariaDB shell against Zora
However, we want to make
sure we understand
what we are about to
execute before proceeding.